readme.md, before:

# What?

This repository helps you with end to end setup of commonly required services for any project in a quick way (< 1 hr) and at the same time provides you with a standard way to add new services specific to your project.

 Common services are as follows:

1. [Loki](https://github.com/grafana/loki) - database to store logs
2. [Prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus) - time series database to store different metrics
3. [Minio](https://github.com/minio/minio) - s3 compatible object storage (e.g., it is used by loki to store old logs)
4. [Grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) - data visualisation platform (e.g., logs can be viewed here)
5.  [Promtail](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/send-data/promtail/) - used to push local logs to loki
6. [Cadvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) - exposes container metrics
7. [Node Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter) - exposes node metrics
8. [Vault](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault) - used for secrets management
9. [Webhook Server](https://github.com/adnanh/webhook) - used to enable cd through an API
10. [Caddy](https://github.com/caddyserver/caddy) - used to expose services to end users
11. [Uptime](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma) - used to monitor services

# Why?

In general every project requires observability, ci/cd pipelines, environment management, etc and these things don't change from project to project. This repository helps standardise setup of these so that separate effort on each project can be minimised.

# How?

## Assumptions

1. A VM with Ubuntu 22.04 (sudo access will be required)
2. A wildcard domain mapped to the above VM (if you want to expose service publicly) - e.g. `*.mydomain.com`
3. Allow public inbound traffic on port 80 and Port 443 on the above VM (if you want to expose service publicly)
4. Allow public inbound traffic on port 9000 (if you want to expose deployment webhook publicly)
5. Run `sudo apt-get install build-essential` to install essential packages
6. Run `sudo wget https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/releases/latest/download/yq_linux_amd64 -O /usr/bin/yq &&
    sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/yq` to install [yq](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq)
   
## Setting up services on VM

1. Create a fork of this repository
2. Clone the forked repository in the VM
3. Create a copy of [sample.env](./common/sample.env) file (`cp common/sample.env .env`)
4. **Update the environment variables in the .env file as required**
5. Create a copy of example docker-compose file (`cp examples/docker-compose.yaml.example docker-compose.yaml`)
6. Create a copy of example Caddyfile (`cp examples/Caddyfile.example Caddyfile`)
7. Run `make install-docker` to install docker
8. Exit out of VM and re-connect to the VM to reflect the latest user changes
9. Run `make setup-daemon` to configure the docker daemon
10. Run `sudo make setup-webhook` to start the webhook service (use `kill -9 $(lsof -t -i:9000)` to kill any existing service on 9000 port)
11. Run `make deploy` to deploy all the services

## Setting up Github Action for CD

1. Go to *Actions* tab in the repo and enable actions
2. Add `{Environment}_WEBHOOK_PASSWORD` and `{Environment}_WEBHOOK_URL` as repository secrets (the `Environment` here should be in uppercase letters and can be any name that you want to give to environment e.g., DEV)

## Deploying services using Github Action

1. Go the *Actions* tab and open *Deploy Service* Action from the left bar
2. Click on *Run workflow* and provide environment (this should be same as you used while setting up Action) and the service name you want to deploy

## Viewing Webhook Service (used for CD) Logs
- Run `sudo journalctl -u webhook.service` to view logs


## Developer Documentaion

1. [Onboarding a service](./docs/onboarding.md) 

## Useful Commands 

1. Deploy a newly added service or pull and redeploy a service

    `make deploy [services=<service_name>]`

3. Stop a service 

    `make stop [services=<service_name>]`

4. Restart a service 

    `make restart [services=<service_name>]`

5. Delete a service 

    `make down [services=<service_name>]`
    
    Note: Volumes are preserved
    
6. Pull images
    `make pull [services=<service_name>]`

7. Build images
    `make build [services=<service_name>]`

## Useful Utilities

1. Migrate Volume from localhost to localhost/remote 

    `make migrate-volume` 

> [!NOTE]
>  Optional environment variable to tweak behaviour of Makefile:
> 1. `ENABLE_FORCE_RECREATE` (set this to 1 to enable force recreations of containers every time a service is deployed)
> 2. `DISABLE_ANSI` (set this to 1 to prevent ANSI output from Docker CLI)
> 3. `DISABLE_REMOVE_ORPHANS` (orphan containers are removed by default when your run `make deploy` without <service_name>, set this to 1 to disable this behaviour)
> 4. `DISABLE_PULL` (images are pulled/rebuilt by default (if you provide `<service_name>`, image for only that service is pulled/rebuilt) when you run `make deploy [services=<service_name>]`,  set this to 1 to disable this behaviour)
> 5. `<service_name>` accepts either one or multiple values separated by space
> 6. `ENABLE_GIT_PULL` (set this to 1 to automatically pull the latest code from the checked out branch before deploying services)

Commit message:

security: onboard esm security tools

readme.md, after:

# What?

This repository helps you with end to end setup of commonly required services for any project in a quick way (< 1 hr) and at the same time provides you with a standard way to add new services specific to your project.

 Common services are as follows:

1. [Loki](https://github.com/grafana/loki) - database to store logs
2. [Prometheus](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus) - time series database to store different metrics
3. [Minio](https://github.com/minio/minio) - s3 compatible object storage (e.g., it is used by loki to store old logs)
4. [Grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) - data visualisation platform (e.g., logs can be viewed here)
5.  [Promtail](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/send-data/promtail/) - used to push local logs to loki
6. [Cadvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor) - exposes container metrics
7. [Node Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter) - exposes node metrics
8. [Vault](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault) - used for secrets management
9. [Webhook Server](https://github.com/adnanh/webhook) - used to enable cd through an API
10. [Caddy](https://github.com/caddyserver/caddy) - used to expose services to end users
11. [Uptime](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma) - used to monitor services

# Why?

In general every project requires observability, ci/cd pipelines, environment management, etc and these things don't change from project to project. This repository helps standardise setup of these so that separate effort on each project can be minimised.

# How?

## Assumptions

1. A VM with Ubuntu 22.04 (sudo access will be required)
2. A wildcard domain mapped to the above VM (if you want to expose service publicly) - e.g. `*.mydomain.com`
3. Allow public inbound traffic on port 80 and Port 443 on the above VM (if you want to expose service publicly)
4. Allow public inbound traffic on port 9000 (if you want to expose deployment webhook publicly)
5. Run `sudo apt-get install build-essential` to install essential packages
6. Run `sudo wget https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/releases/latest/download/yq_linux_amd64 -O /usr/bin/yq &&
    sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/yq` to install [yq](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq)
   
## Setting up services on VM

1. Create a fork of this repository
2. Clone the forked repository in the VM
3. Create a copy of [sample.env](./common/sample.env) file (`cp common/sample.env .env`)
4. **Update the environment variables in the .env file as required**
5. Create a copy of example docker-compose file (`cp examples/docker-compose.yaml.example docker-compose.yaml`)
6. Create a copy of example Caddyfile (`cp examples/Caddyfile.example Caddyfile`)
7. Run `make install-docker` to install docker
8. Exit out of VM and re-connect to the VM to reflect the latest user changes
9. Run `make setup-daemon` to configure the docker daemon
10. Run `make setup-security` to install security audit tools (requires `GITHUB_PAT` in .env file)
11. Run `sudo make setup-webhook` to start the webhook service (use `kill -9 $(lsof -t -i:9000)` to kill any existing service on 9000 port)
12. Run `make deploy` to deploy all the services

## Setting up Github Action for CD

1. Go to *Actions* tab in the repo and enable actions
2. Add `{Environment}_WEBHOOK_PASSWORD` and `{Environment}_WEBHOOK_URL` as repository secrets (the `Environment` here should be in uppercase letters and can be any name that you want to give to environment e.g., DEV)

## Deploying services using Github Action

1. Go the *Actions* tab and open *Deploy Service* Action from the left bar
2. Click on *Run workflow* and provide environment (this should be same as you used while setting up Action) and the service name you want to deploy

## Viewing Webhook Service (used for CD) Logs
- Run `sudo journalctl -u webhook.service` to view logs


## Developer Documentaion

1. [Onboarding a service](./docs/onboarding.md) 

## Useful Commands 

1. Deploy a newly added service or pull and redeploy a service

    `make deploy [services=<service_name>]`

3. Stop a service 

    `make stop [services=<service_name>]`

4. Restart a service 

    `make restart [services=<service_name>]`

5. Delete a service 

    `make down [services=<service_name>]`
    
    Note: Volumes are preserved
    
6. Pull images
    `make pull [services=<service_name>]`

7. Build images
    `make build [services=<service_name>]`

## Useful Utilities

1. Migrate Volume from localhost to localhost/remote 

    `make migrate-volume` 

> [!NOTE]
>  Optional environment variable to tweak behaviour of Makefile:
> 1. `ENABLE_FORCE_RECREATE` (set this to 1 to enable force recreations of containers every time a service is deployed)
> 2. `DISABLE_ANSI` (set this to 1 to prevent ANSI output from Docker CLI)
> 3. `DISABLE_REMOVE_ORPHANS` (orphan containers are removed by default when your run `make deploy` without <service_name>, set this to 1 to disable this behaviour)
> 4. `DISABLE_PULL` (images are pulled/rebuilt by default (if you provide `<service_name>`, image for only that service is pulled/rebuilt) when you run `make deploy [services=<service_name>]`,  set this to 1 to disable this behaviour)
> 5. `<service_name>` accepts either one or multiple values separated by space
> 6. `ENABLE_GIT_PULL` (set this to 1 to automatically pull the latest code from the checked out branch before deploying services)
